Adobe Vendor Security Review Program White Paper 
Adobe®Vendor Security Review Program 
Overview 
Table of Contents 
1 
Overview 
1 
Adobe Vendor Security Review {VSR) Process 
1 
Data Classification 
4 
VSR Security Controls 
5 
The Adobe Vendor Information Security Standard 
5 
Vendor Engagement 
6 
Privacy Assessment 
6 
Legal Obligations 
7 
Conclusion 
Managed by the Adobe Information Security team, Adobe's vendor security review (VSR) program includes a set of requirements to which third-party vendors that collect, store, process, transmit, or dispose of Adobe Internal, Confidential, or Restricted data outside of Adobe-controlled physical offices or data center locations must adhere. Typical scenarios include vendors processing and storing Adobe data at their site, cloud services (e.g., Saas, PaaS, laaS, and XaaS), and data centers. 
The Adobe VSR program evaluates each vendor's compliance to Adobe's Vendor Information Security Standard, providing a risk-based review of the vendor's security practices and enabling Adobe managers to make fact-based decisions concerning whether or not to enter into a relationship with that vendor. 
The management of vendor relationships and their interactions with Adobe information and technologyresources is an essential element of information security. The VSR program is a logical extension of Adobe's belief that every action taken on or interaction with data should be conducted with a lens of security to help ensure the security, privacy, and availability of our customers' and employees' data, no matter where it is stored or processed, which is one of the key controls within the Adobe Common Controls Framework (CCF). With the VSR program, Adobe helps ensure that its culture of security extends to any vendor with whom the company does business. 
Adobe Vendor Security Review (VSR) Program Process 
The VSR program evaluates a third-party vendor's compliance with the Adobe Vendor Information Security Standard (described above). 
Business owners within Adobe that wish to enter into a relationship with a third-party vendor initiatethe process with a VSR request, which includes a description of the service provided by the vendor, whether the vendor will process Adobe data off-site, and the classification of the data the vendor intends to process. 
Based on the information provided by the business owner, Adobe sends the main point of contactat the vendor a detailed questionnaire, including questions from each security control area (see VSR Security Controls section). 
After the vendor completes and returns the questionnaire, Adobe information security analysts review the information and perform a gap assessment. A vendor is assigned a risk level score of "critical," "high," "medium," or "low" based upon a risk matrix used by our risk analysts. If Adobe finds any gaps in, or deviations from, Adobe security standards, a risk analyst holds discussions with the business owner to understand the details about the gap and to provide potential remediation suggestions. The analyst documents the recommended remediation and the actions to be performed by the vendor and/or the business owner. If necessary, risk analysts will meet directly with vendors to resolve more complex issues. 
Data Classification 
Adobe developed the Adobe Data Classification and Handling Standard to aid in ensuring the security and privacy of all data that Adobe collects, processes, stores, uses, or otherwise handles regardless of whether the data is owned by Adobe or a third party, where the data is located (e.g., Adobe data center,colocation), or the type of hardware or media on which the data resides, whether paper or electronic (e.g., server, desktop, laptop, mobile device, USB flash drive). The standard establishes that all data 
collected, processed, transmitted, stored, or destroyed by or on behalf of Adobe must be classified and then protected in accordance with its designated classification. The specific classifications in the standard define with whom employees can share Adobe data and determine where and how toshare, protect, and secure this data. 
The Adobe Data Classification and Handling Standard includes four (4) classifications: 
Adobe Restricted 
Adobe Confidential 
Adobe Internal 
Public 
A VSR is required for all third-party vendors that store or process data classified as Adobe Restricted, Confidential, or Internal off-premise (not at Adobe). Depending on the classification of the data handled by the vendor, a new VSR is required either annually or bi­annually (see Recertification section). 
Each data classification includes specific protection and handling requirements, and if data falls into multiple classifications, it must be protected in accordance with the most restrictive classification. 
Any business owner requesting an exception to the Data Classification and Handling Standard mustsubmit a request in writing to the appropriate management personnel for review and approval. 
If Adobe finds that data that should be classified as Adobe Restricted or Adobe Confidential has been handled incorrectly, either due to incorrect classification or negligence in its handling, Adobe may take disciplinary action against the offender. 
Adobe Restricted Data 
Adobe Restricted data is the most restrictive classification and requires the most care; only very limited segments of the Adobe workforce need access to Adobe Restricted data to perform their jobs. Unauthorized disclosure of Adobe Restricted data could cause severe harm to Adobe, its employees, customers, stockholders, or business partners. Adobe Restricted data includes the following: 
Cardholder data, as defined by the PCI DSS 
Bank account numbers 
Social Security and taxpayer identification numbers relating to an individual 
Driver's license numbers or identification card number used to verify an individual's identity(state, military, student, voter, tribal, operator's number, etc.) 
Passport information 
Credential stores used to authenticate Adobe users or employees, such as Active Directory {butnot including personal password managers, such as Splash ID) 
Credentials, secrets, tokens, or keys permitting access to systems storing Restricted data or permitting decryption of Restricted data (e.g., identity management systems, deployment systems, or secret stores) 
Digital certificates used for signing Adobe software 
Medical or health information, including electronically protected health information (ePHI) 
Federal classified or intelligence contracts 
Security question response (including mother's maiden name) or Personal Identification Number (PIN) 
Private key digital signatures 
Biometric information 
Genetic information 
Racial origin 
Ethnic origin 
Political opinions 
Religious beliefs 
Philosophical beliefs 
Trade union membership 
Sex life information 
Sexual orientation 
Criminal offenses and convictions 
Birth certificate 
Marriage certificate 
Information or data collected through use or operation of an automated license platerecognition system 
Classification 
Examples 
Impact of Unauthorized Disclosure 
Restricted data has a High Business Impact 
Regulatory protected data, material financial data, intellectual property, passwords and credential. 
Likely to cause severe harm to Adobe, its employees, customers, stockholders, or business partners. 
Confidential data has a Medium Business Impact 
People related data (salary, benefits), data with need-to­know restrictions like source code, Customer Files, product road maps, Adobe financial information. 
Likely to cause significant harm to Adobe, its employees, customers, stockholders, or business partners 
Internal data has a Moderate Business Impact 
Note: The default type for unclassified data is Internal 
Operational planning, collaboration and internal communications, IT Knowledge Center articles. 
May cause minor embarrassment or operational inconvenience 
Public data 
Information that is openly available 
No impact 
Adobe Confidential Data 
Only limited segments of the Adobe workforce need access to data classified as Adobe Confidential in order to perform their jobs. Unauthorized disclosure of Adobe Confidential data would likely cause significant harm (such as financial, contractual, or legal or reputational harm orservice disruptions) to Adobe, its employees, customers, stockholders, and business partners. 
Adobe Confidential data includes: 
Data that Adobe is contractually required to treat as confidential 
Personal information (Pl) (unless the personal information meets the definition of Adobe Restricted data) about an individual (including free users, paid users, enterprise users, suppliers, or employees). This can include directly identifiable personal information, such as name, email address, phone number, home address, or precise geolocation information. Personal informationcan also include indirectly identifiable personal information, such as a user GUlD, IP address, cookie ID, or device identifier. 
Content or data that customers, partners, or users provide to Adobe (unless the content or datameets the definition of Restricted data below) 
